Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
- I've never been the
smoothest with the ladies.
I think we all know that.
I did get it right once though.
Or rather I didn't screw it up.
We met at a bar. it was her
local bar. Rocky's Tavern.
I'd never been there before.
I just stopped by for a drink.
And that's when I saw Cindy.
Everyone. I mean
everyone knew Cindy.
She was laughing. dancing.
calling the employees by name.
She must've known I was
thinking about her too
because she sat
down at my table.
I nearly spilled my drink.
Like. damn.
Me?
She sat down and she smiled.
She was lonely.
I mean she was kind. engaged.
Happy even. I don't
know how else to say it.
She was just lonely.
Of course. I was lonely too.
So Pete. do
you wanna hear about me?
- That night she told me
all sorts of personal
things about her life.
About her best friends
in high school.
How she could have been in
the Olympics if she wanted to.
She didn't.
How many guys the
waitress had slept with.
Seven.
She talked me about her sister
and the woods at night
and it was beautiful.
My God. it was so beautiful.
I felt like I was
living it all with her.
I had nothing to add. you know?
I just nodded. I
stirred my drink
and I helped her finish hers.
I started to make
up my own stories.
Isn't that pathetic?
My own emotions and memories
and opinions. all fake.
She knew it.
It only made her lonelier.
She think I resent
her. but I don't.
I never no. I wanna be her.
To have those emotions
and memories and opinions.
To live.
And I tried.
I really really tried.
'cause in my heart I believe
that I still love her.
She was as lonely last week
as the night I met her.
- Let there be...Hey!
Well welcome. welcome.
welcome. welcome to my home.
It's um. well. home.
I'm a book.
Have you ever met a book?
Like really engaged with it?
I mean I know we're just words.
but I think that makes
us very interesting!
Words. language. words!
No guttural nonsense.
you know. no ugh.
"How are you feeling today?"
"Ugh."
It's not a word.
It's a sound. an emotion.
And those are great.
I mean emotions.
shew. are great.
But your emotions
they need the word!
Just as the word
needs your emotions.
I mean all my juicy words like
exalted and yearning. lust.
well they're nothing
without your ugh ugh ugh.
Exhibit A.
So. what else about me?
Oh. one could say I'm
about 1.500 years old.
depending on your translation.
But I like to think of
myself as still relevant.
Still hot with the kids.
I'm not one of those grumpy.
old. get off-my-shelf books.
I mean I once knew a copy of
Moby Dick that was. a dick.
"The new books this
and the new books that"
Couldn't keep up.
That's what makes me special.
I adapt.
I am always adapting.
Country to country.
century to century.
I'm the one the only.
the hallowed the holy.
Bible!
Wanna talk?
- No.
- Okay.
I'm Gid. by the way.
Gideon. Gid.
- Hey Gid.
Stop!
- Stop what?
- Looking at me like that.
- Like what?
- Like you're judging me.
- I'm not judging you.
- Whatever.
- I'm not.
Should I be?
- No!
- Okay.
- What do you want from me?
- I just want to talk!
- Don't most motels at
least have the courtesy
to leave you in the drawer.
Jesus Christ.
- Language.
- Really?
- Look. I sit here all day.
Stuck in this motel room.
Waiting for you.
You don't have to
be rude about it.
Gosh.
- You can't leave?
- Not unless you
take me with you.
Sounds terrible.
- It is!
Stuck in this hotel
room. my goodness.
- No. I meant
taking you with me.
Walking around with you.
My god. it sounds awful.
- Mm. resistance
to the Word of God.
You know you got a
real Paul complex.
- Paul. huh?
- Mm hmm.
- You know I saw myself
as more of George
Harrison kinda guy.
- No. no. no you're a Paul.
He used to be a real sourpuss.
- Sourpuss?
- But then one day.
Acts 9:4. a light from
heaven flashed around him.
He fell to the ground
and heard a voice say
"I am Jesus. whom
you are persecuting.
"Now get up and
go into the city.
"and you will be told
what you must do."
- Very dramatic.
- Oh yes.
God zapped him right
then and there.
- With lightning?
- With love.
And blindness.
And he went on to spread the
Word of God all over the world.
and ultimately had a
big hand in writing me.
- So. I'm the sourpuss.
and you are the flash of
light that's gonna save me.
Is that right?
- In a word. amen.
I'd still
rather be George Harrison.
- Don't know that I know him.
- Oo. probably 'cause all
you got is Bible stuff
and I'm not really
talking Bible stuff
so back in the drawer with ya.
- No. no. come on.
Come on. we don't have to
talk about Bible stuff.
We could talk about anything.
What's going on with the world?
Is Reagan still president?
- What?
No.
Politics are just a big
Reality TV show mess.
- TV?
Well. Reagan was an actor.
- Not the same.
- Okay!
Is Batman still a thing?
- Yes. Batman is still a thing.
- Great!
Batman's my favorite.
- Mine too.
- Are the Yankees still good?
- Ah they're better.
- Dang.
- Yeah.
Oh. but the Cubs won the World
Series a couple years ago.
- No way?
- Yeah. yeah. It
was pretty crazy.
- Oh praise God from
whom all blessings flow!
Oh he's good.
Whoo hoo ha ha ha.
Oh my.
Oh my!
Oh!
Oh that's my God.
That is my God.
That's an answer to
a lot of prayers.
- Oh yeah. I bet.
- You would not
believe how many.
- In this town?
I'm sure.
- Can I confess something?
- Sure.
- I love baseball.
It's just so. everyone's there.
Cheering for the same team.
And they're so happy!
They're in unity.
Celebrating the
same amazing thing.
It's like heaven.
- Uh huh.
- A solid 30 years of prayers
I've heard up to the
big guy about it.
Or was it 40?
Oh my goodness.
What year is it?
I'm sorry I try. but
I always lose track.
- It's 2019.
- 2019?
Wow.
And we still have Batman!
Mm mm mm.
That makes me happy.
Shoobado bop.
- How old are you?
- Oh. one could say
1500 years. depending...
Me personally?
- Yeah.
- Let's see. it's 2019.
Gosh. that's a lot.
66.
Published Gideon's
international 1953.
- Wow.
- Yep.
Been stuck in this
hotel room ever since.
- Dang.
- Yep.
Used to have a working TV!
In '84.
Kinda never fixed it.
Then with laptops and
smartphones. yeah.
Haven't really been used
much in the last few years.
Except for. you know.
- Hm?
- This one guy needed some
paper to roll a joint.
Stole a piece of Judges.
Kind of ironic actually.
Yeah.
Oh then some guy spilled
coffee on my once.
- Bible study?
- AA meeting.
Lost soul. searching
for the answer.
- Jesus Christ.
- That's the one!
- I bet you see a
lot of shady stuff
in this hotel room. huh.
- Not always!
Once a kindergartner needed
something to draw on.
Back cover.
Cool. eh?
- It's cute.
- Yeah. I think so.
I mean. it's not Picasso.
- Eh. maybe it is Picasso.
- Hey.
I guess. that makes you
her Bible then. huh.
- Uh. no. no.
I'm not really anyone's Bible.
Or. I'm everyone's Bible.
everyone who walks in the room.
That's kinda how I
think about it. anyways.
But no no. I'm no...
I don't belong to anyone.
No underlined passages.
or highlighted Psalms
of encouragement.
Yeah.
Just a princess.
- I never wrote in my Bible.
- You should.
You really should.
- Yeah.
- Expecting someone?
- Huh?
No.
No. no. just uh...
Waiting.
- Well. want to hear a
story while you wait?
No.
- "In the beginning. God
created the heavens a-"
Not that one.
- "And there were shepherds
"living out in
the fields nearby"
No.
- "By prayer and petition.
"with thanksgiving.
present your requests to"
Next.
- "He spilled his
semen on the ground
"to keep from providing
offspring for his brother."
- Oh my god!
That's in there?
- You'd be surprised.
- Damn.
- Indeed.
So what's the gun for?
- Nothing.
Nothing?
- Is it a drug thing?
- No!
- Is it a stakeout?
Wait! You're a cop?
- Stop it!
- Oh. you must be
really undercover.
How long since you've shaved?
- I'm not a cop.
- Hmm. maybe a detective?
You seem like a good guy.
- I'm not a good guy.
- So a bad guy who
talks to Bibles.
- Bad guys don't use the Bible?
- Not like this.
- This isn't special man.
I've read you before.
- Oh right. your unmarked Bible.
No wonder you're confused.
- I got stuff to focus on.
- Mm. Gun stuff?
- You're not talking
me out of this!
- Talking you out of what?
- This!
- This what?
- Use your words. Pete!
Ugh is not a word.
it's a sound an em-
Yeah. that's not
really how this works.
- I'm not talking to you.
- If you insist.
What's this?
- Don't.
- Is this what you
wanted to talk about?
- Touch that.
- A letter.
"Dear Candy"?
- Cindy!
- Cindy! Sorry.
You need to work on
your handwriting. sir.
Is she who the gun's for?
- No.
- "Dear Cindy. I miss you.
"Isn't that crazy?
"Even when I think
about you with Leo.
"I miss you.
"But I can't forgive you.
"And I certainly
won't forgive Leo.
"If you are reading this.
then Leo's not around anymore.
"Good.
"I'm sure that hurts. but that's
a price I'm willing to pay.
"If you're reading this now.
then you've already paid it.
"I love you.
"I'm sorry you were lonely and
I'm sorry I could never help.
"Peter Jameson"
I'm sorry.
- For what?
You didn't do anything.
Then again action really
isn't your thing. huh?
You're all about talking.
judging. predicting.
You haven't done shit
for thousands of years.
What the hell is this?
- What?
- This!
What the hell is this?
- Sorry.
Lots of people
find me comforting.
- Comforting?
- Um. yes.
- I don't.
- Okay. maybe I rushed the hug.
Look. it's been a
while for me. okay?
And I'm just meeting you.
you're just meeting me.
It's our first time!
We'll get it.
- Now I'm really uncomfortable.
- Fine.
But I'm trying over here.
and you have been
nothing but rude to me.
Rude to you?
Look princess. I'm
not gonna get tricked
into feeling sorry
for you. okay?
You are not a perfect book.
You're not worth defending.
You're not an underdog.
You're kind of a monster.
And sure. my parents
got off on you.
but I sure as hell
don't have to.
Frankly. if I never saw you
again. I'd be a happier man.
- Strong words.
I wonder are you
feeling convicted?
- No. Shut up.
- A lotta pressure
to put on one guy.
killing someone and all.
- Ha.
- Excuse me?
- That's pretty rich
coming from you.
- Uh-
- You're gonna
knock me for killing?
- Yes.
10 Commandments. Exodus
20:13. thou shalt not murder.
- How many people
die by your hand?
- My hand?
I'm just a book after all.
- Okay. you were
written by God. right?
Yes.
- And God is good. right?
- Yes.
- How many people
die by his hand?
- Some.
- Some?
Tell me. was it 2 Kings
when the Angel of the Lord
smote the Assyrian camp?
- Yes.
- Something like 100.000 people?
- 185.000
- 185.000 people.
- Yes. so. a lot.
- A lot.
185.000 people. in one night.
- Yes. not untrue.
- Very true. according to you.
Thou shalt not murder.
unless I say so.
- Look! God gets
to make that call!
I can tell you're
not a believer.
- Hey. damn right.
- But I do know this:
You did not create life.
God did!
He has the power to give life
and he the authority
to take it away.
You Pete. do not.
For you to murder
someone in cold blood
for selfish reasons is wrong.
- You're right.
- Yes. yes I am.
- I need to be more obedient.
- Yes. you do.
- I need guidance.
I need scripture.
- Praise Jesus.
- O my gosh.
- Yes. Yes!
- Oh let's see.
Guidance. laws.
Leviticus!
- Oo.
- Chapter 20?
- Ya know?
- Let's see verse-
- That's completely different.
- Verse 10!
- See the Old Testament law
was fulfilled.
We aren't under that covenant-
If a man
commits adultery
with the wife of his
neighbor. both the adulterer
and the adulteress shall
surely be put to death.
- You see?
I'm just following orders.
- Don't do that.
- What? Follow orders?
That's conve-
- Don't abuse me.
Don't pluck out
verses and twist them.
You're not humbling yourself.
You're not learning.
You're not even listening.
You're manipulating Scripture
because you're selfish.
And it hurts.
It hurts people.
It hurts God.
And it hurts you.
What you said earlier.
all the blood on my hands.
that's how it happens.
- So this is my fault?
- It's about to be.
You're about to kill someone.
And I will not be used.
Either don't use
Scripture at all.
or take it all as a whole.
All in context.
- Context?
- Yes.
- You're saying I should take
the whole chapter into account.
- The whole book!
- Right.
And if I still don't get it.
If showing love to a thousand
generations in Exodus
still isn't consistent
enough with killing witches
also in Exodus. I should
read the whole Bible. right?
- I highly recommend it.
- For context?
- For context.
- Great.
And this is just a thought here.
It feels like you're asking
me to do all the work for you.
Justifying all your
contradictions with context.
- Asking you to
read the whole thing
doesn't seem that unfair.
Imagine if I only listened
to half of what you said.
- But it doesn't
stop there. does it?
- What do you mean?
- Well for context. for
true biblical context.
I would have to consider
all the original languages
and adaptations
you've been through.
The Greek. the
Hebrew. the Aramaic.
- Sure. and not just the
languages. the cultures-
- And then I can't forget
about the historical context.
How you've been
interpreted since then.
For which I would have to look
through thousands of years
of church history
which. to be honest.
had a lot of low
points don't ya think?
Between The Crusades. Joan of
Arc. pedophilia. et cetera.
- Fair point:
interpretation is sloppy.
What are you getting at?
- Who do you expect to help
when no one's qualified
to read you. Gid?
Are we supposed to
devote half our lives
to justifying your stains
with centuries of context?
What is context?
- Fine. let me
simplify it for you.
- Please.
- The context is that of love.
- Love?
Well that's a goddamn
catchall. isn't it?
- So. what's the plan?
- You know the plan.
- You check the parking
lot every few minutes
and hope you get lucky?
- Yep.
- Ya know you could just
stand by the window.
- Oh why don't I just
wave my gun around too.
make sure they see me.
- Mm.
Then hopefully of all the
gin joints in all Chicago.
Cindy shacks up with Leo
in this dump of a hotel.
- I know she's coming.
- Oo. did God tell you?
- What. like a flash of light?
No. I stick to
reality. thank you.
- Oh. like talking to a Bible.
- Touché.
I followed her.
- Ouch.
- Yeah.
I kept telling myself
that I was just making sure
she was safe. you know?
Even when I followed her here.
And then I followed
her here again.
And again.
This was their place.
Friday was their night.
I checked in to the
room next door once.
It's stupid. but...
it was nice hear
her laugh again.
I confronted her.
Six months.
I called and sure enough.
there was a reservation.
- Maybe you missed them.
- I didn't miss them.
I have an alarm clock.
A clear view of the parking lot.
I know what car she drives.
And just in case. I
told the desk clerk
to call me when they check in.
- Wow. very thorough.
- Thanks.
- So then what?
When?
- I mean after you shoot Leo
and throw this bloody
note at your wife.
Then what?
- Who knows.
Maybe I'll go to a Cubs game.
- Well. that'd be fun.
- Yeah and I may
need a cigarette.
You mind if I
borrow a few pages?
Nothing important. just
Old Testament stuff.
- Ha ha cheeky.
You know. I couldn't
help but notice
you know your way around
Scripture better than most.
- O yeah?
- Yeah.
And you don't strike
me as a religion major.
- Why's that?
- Religion majors
tend to be less...
Yes?
- Disheveled.
- You and I know very
different religion majors.
Anyways it's a long story.
- I got time.
- My dad was a pastor.
Was?
- Yeah. he died a few years ago.
Five. five years ago.
Highly aggressive early
onset Alzheimer's.
- I'm sorry.
- Thanks.
We rushed the wedding.
Wanted him to be there.
He didn't remember
my name at the time.
And Mom was a mess.
she didn't make it
through the ceremony.
And on top of all the dad stuff.
Cindy wasn't a Christian which
Mom was just ballistic about.
She thought she was immature.
I guess she was right.
My dad was one of the
best men that I ever knew.
A real solid guy.
And when he got sick.
I started to pray.
And I prayed.
Every morning. every evening.
Fasting. Bible
study. the whole bit.
Nothing. nothing. nothing.
I was in a bad way.
That's when I met Cindy.
and she lit up my life.
Man. her singing. her dancing.
She was fearless.
Fearless!
I don't know. maybe I
needed something to love.
or something to
save because my Dad.
I couldn't save him
and it hurt so much.
that I became numb.
And my faith broke a little
more each day until finally.
I told God. that if Dad
got better. I'd be in.
And if he didn't.
then I'd be out.
He's gone now.
- How is your mom?
- Terrible.
She still prays for me.
Prays for Dad. too.
She thinks that if
she has enough faith
he'll raise from the dead.
Matthew 10. right?
- That's not what I meant.
- Well it doesn't matter
what you meant. all right?
This is what happens when you
get shoved down the throat
of vulnerable. desperate people.
Raised from the dead?
Isn't that crazy?
And this is what I hate.
I hate when all
of this faith crap
gets in the way of what's real.
You know?
I mean. my poor mom may
be hung up on the fact
that Dad's gonna come
back from the dead
for the rest of her life.
I wish she would just
accept it and move on.
Dad's dead.
I mean what am I supposed
to do with that. huh?
- I don't know.
- That's a first.
- I hope your mom comes around.
- Yeah. yeah I hope she's okay.
- You know...
I think there's a spot
in there where we agree.
- That faith is a poisonous
substitute for reality?
- No.
Not there.
That death is the worst.
- Death's the worst.
Yeah. I think I can
get behind that.
- Not by design. you know?
People weren't
originally made to die.
- I got news for you friend.
- I mean...
Anyway. death is the worst.
- Yeah.
Yeah. it's pretty bad.
- And yet.
- What?
- I mean. we both agree
that death is a bad thing.
You just said so yourself.
It's. it's permanent.
Your father. he can't come back.
And that hurts.
- Yes?
- Then well Leo. I mean
he's not gonna be able
to come back either.
- Yes?
- Are you gonna think about
your father while you kill Leo?
What about his father.
- Yeah?
- His family.
- This of all the damage
your father's death caused.
- You're the worst.
you know that.
Taking my pain and
guilting me with it.
- So it's my fault
that you feel guilty?
- No. no.
- It has nothing
to do with the fact
that you're about
to shoot someone.
- That's real shitting
man. to use pain as a tool.
- Not use. address!
I'm addressing your pain.
- You don't get to.
- Pete. I can help.
- I decide. you don't get
to force and manipulate me.
Can you just stop
and think for one second?
- You know you dig and dig.
you pretend like you care.
But you just want to find an in.
Isn't that right?
- Listen to me.
- You just want to know
what makes me weak!
- What if you die?
- Screw you. man.
- What if Leo has a gun?
I mean. he knows you know.
She probably told him. right?
- I don't care.
- I mean. she would
have told him.
- I don't care.
You don't get to
tell me what to do.
- Don't remind me.
I just sit here offering
you words of truth and love-
- You have no authority here!
- Your loss.
- Who the hell do
you think you are?
- The Word of God.
The Word of God?
- Straight from the mouth.
- You mean the mouth
of 40 violent dead men.
- Who were inspired by
the Holy Spirit several-
- Oh good!
Insane violent dead men.
Who got high on some
Holy Spirit and wrote a book
- They weren't insane.
You think I'm insane?
- for a buncha straight men.
- I am inspired.
I am the Bible.
- You hurt people.
- I'm the Word of God!
- John 1.
Jesus is the Word of God.
That's gotta be true. isn't it?
- Yes.
- You aren't Jesus. are you?
- No.
- No. you're not the Father.
or the Son or the Holy Spirit.
- I'm Scripture for God's sake.
- Right. You're Scripture.
You're the Word of God. but
you aren't the voice of God.
you're not God himself.
- Yes but you need the Word.
- Like you need God?
- Yes.
No!
- Oh. so I don't need you?
You only go so far.
- Oh. trust me. I go pretty far.
- Yeah. but not far enough.
- I go pretty far.
- Easy man. your Old
Testament's showing.
- I go pretty far.
Hey. I got a question.
What's it like getting
to believe whatever?
- I don't believe whatever.
I just don't believe in you.
You're a cocky son of
a bitch. you know that.
Look who's talking.
- Yeah. look who's asking.
- I mean it's just
so incredible.
God lets people
believe anything.
It's pretty great actually.
- Yeah?
Man. it's wild.
Oh. what's the craziest
thing you ever believed?
- The Bible.
- Fine.
What's the second craziest
thing you ever believed?
- You can't judge me. okay?
- Okay.
- When I was a kid I believed
that Pokemon were real.
- No way!
- Yeah.
- Like really
believed it though.
- Oh yeah man. I was positive
I was gonna catch a
Charmander in my backyard.
- Wow!
What's a Pokemon?
- Oh. it's this
super fun Satan thing
that people used to
do on the weekends.
- What?
- Oh. yeah.
You go off into the deep
grass. maybe a cave.
You summon up a Scyther.
Pinsirs. Mr. Mime.
- Pete. you were a
Satan worshipper?
- Nope.
I Gotcha.
- Ugh.
- Ugh?
Use your words. Gid.
You're better than that.
- Pokemon.
- Okay what about you?
What's the craziest
thing you believe.
- Oh.
I mean. I believe myself.
I'm kinda locked in.
I don't really change.
That's why I asked you.
I'm a codified
system of beliefs.
- Exactly. that's what I mean.
What's the craziest codified
belief you got in you?
- Oh. that's tough!
Well there's an angel
with a cow face.
Ezekiel. it's trippy.
A 7-headed dragon
chasing a pregnant woman.
Revelation. also trippy.
And then there's the
Leviathan and the Nephilim.
Honestly. the
craziest thing to me.
is that God. big infinite God.
let these itty bitty little
people make infinite choices.
Like believing whatever.
That's it. that's
the craziest thing.
- You also can sit back and
judge us when we choose wrong.
- You don't always choose wrong.
- Not that you'd know.
- Come on. if there
is one thing I know
it's right and wrong.
- Please.
- Really? You disagree?
- Yes I disagree.
Morality in the Bible
is all over the place.
and morality through God.
well that's impossible.
- What?
- Oh yeah. the idea of morality
and the God of the Bible
don't fit together.
- That's ridiculous.
- It's true.
- Explain.
- No.
- Come on.
- Ugh.
- Ugh?
You scared?
- No.
- Okay.
- Fine. but if I win this one.
you have to leave me alone.
- What?
- If I can prove to
you that morality
and the God of the Bible
don't fit together.
then you go back in
the drawer; talk over.
- Okay. Mr. Religion Major.
And if I win. then you have
to take me to a Cubs game.
- No.
- Yep!
- Not happening.
- Please?
- People don't bring
Bibles to baseball games.
- You can put me in a sleeve.
everybody'll think
I'm a dictionary.
- People don't bring
dictionaries to baseball games-
- Please. please.
please. please!
please. please. please. please
please. please. please
- Fine.
- Yes!
Okay.
Prosecution takes
opening arguments. sir.
- Let's pretend that God
exists. and that morality.
right and wrong. flow from him.
It comes from his
magical God beard.
Whatever.
- Love it.
- Except that if God
sets the standard
for moral and immoral.
then right and wrong
will change at the snap
of his God-fingers.
- Faulty premise.
God doesn't change.
Morality stays the same
because God stays the same.
Point for Gideon.
- What about Abraham?
- My Abraham?
- Yes! Your Abraham.
God asked him to kill his son.
Yes?
- Yes. but God stopped him.
- Exactly!
He asked him and
then he stopped him.
He changed his mind.
- Point for Pete!
- Objection!
- Overruled!
He's either a liar or he's sick.
How. how then can I rely
on God for moral guidance?
His morality is
constantly shifting.
Two points for Pete!
- Okay. okay.
My turn.
The defense begins.
Let's zoom out.
- Hate it.
- Now you say God
and his morality are
constantly shifting.
But to say that
something is shifting
implies that you
are on stable ground
and able to perceive said shift.
Your argument acknowledges
that there's a stable
objective morality.
Yes?
- Proceed.
- So there's an immovable
code of right and wrong.
- Correct.
- We agree.
But who defines that code?
Either God is shifting.
and you are stable.
Or you are shifting.
and God is stable.
It's like the sun.
It looks like the sun is rising.
when in fact it's
you that's moving.
Now if I have to guess
which one is stable
between you and God. I choose
the creator of the universe
not the guy with the gun.
Two points to two!
- Let's bring it back
to morality. though.
Shall we?
Remember context?
You bend over backwards to
qualify God's decisions.
God violates my conscience!
Clearly. then. I must have
a moral measuring stick
apart from God.
Point!
- And who made your
measuring stick?
You're appealing to a moral
code without an author.
A substance without a source.
An effect without a cause.
Point!
- Not necessarily.
- Pete. you're not
looking to disprove God.
You're looking for a better god.
- Damn right.
Your god is an objectively
bad communicator.
Point!
- Oh so he is moral. you
just don't understand him.
Point!
He ties the game.
- Fine.
You're saying God
is always moral.
- No. he defines moral.
- Whatever.
So all I need to do is
find one example of God
not being moral. and I win.
- Good luck.
- Okay. Genocide.
- Hmm.
- Killing children
as part of a plague.
Sacking Canaan. and
calling it Promised Land.
Drowning all of humanity.
and oh look a rainbow.
These are war crimes.
I say these are objectively
terrible things to do.
Terrible.
Do you agree?
- I agree.
- So I win?
- No!
While these things are
terrible and horrifying.
they must have been much
better than the alternative.
- What is what precisely?
- I don't know.
- What?
- I don't know!
And that's my point.
We don't know what the
alternative would have been.
A world without freedom?
Greater evil?
No consequence for injustice?
Who knows.
But the answer is certainly
not that God is immoral.
God is good definitionally.
he made goodness. he
can't not be good!
It's like asking a
triangle to be a square!
- But he's changed
his mind before.
- From your point of view.
And you could too if you wanted.
- You just pivoted
off of morality.
off of murder.
- You're a piece of
work. you know that?
- You kidding me?
I'm an all-time
best seller baby.
I'm good at this.
- That I did not say.
- Here. let me prove it to ya.
You can go into some
prayer or meditation time.
I'll give you some
juicy verse to chew on.
- I'll get all teary eyed
and start confessing?
My God!
- Yes!
Then the Holy Spirit
can come and comfort you
like a loving father holding
his sweet precious son.
- Oh you mean Jesus.
- Would you stop?
- I swear I will throw
you out that window.
- Oh would you please?
I'd see the world!
- You're unbelievable.
- That's not true.
Hundreds of millions of
people believe in me.
- Not me.
- Yes. you've made
that abundantly clear.
- Good.
- Sigh.
Pete. you've said a lot
about how wrong I am.
You've got a lot of
things you don't believe.
What exactly do you believe?
- I believe...
The truth is I feel the
happiest when I do something.
I never felt happy with God.
I felt afraid with God.
I felt alone with God.
I feel the safest
when I rely on myself.
And I'm not good.
but I want to be.
I want to know myself.
Improve myself!
And religion. God.
God.
Any god that damns humanity
for eating an apple
in pursuit of knowledge
is no god of mine.
Anything that limits
personal responsibility.
self-improvement through
self reflection is wrong.
is inadequate and it is evil.
Religion is just the fog of war
that separates
mankind from himself.
It's funny.
It's kinda like what
you said earlier.
I believe in me.
- Me.
Self.
That's all that I am.
- What if you're not enough?
For what exactly.
- Everything you
believe is based on you.
What if you're not enough?
- For what?
For living. dying-
- Let me rephrase.
Pete. you're not enough.
If you are trying to
shoulder the weight
of justifying your
own existence. it's
going to kill you.
But. you know. when you fail.
When! Not if.
You don't measure up.
God loves you with
his whole heart.
He paid a ridiculous
price to be with you.
to be your justice.
He loves you.
- There is no God.
- Come on!
Okay.
Tell me this.
If you knew there was a god.
a loving God up there.
would you admit it?
Seriously?
See. you're not
looking for truth.
for what's real.
You don't want
there to be a god.
You can't believe that
someone loves you.
You can't accept it.
You know what. I think
you know there's a god.
Somewhere deep down.
- You don't know what I know.
- At least you're
pretty darn sure.
And it feels safer to treat
it like some big question mark
because of what if would mean.
Look. Pete.
I don't think you're in an
existential philosophy crisis.
I think you're in pain.
And there's a good. big
God up there who loves you.
Let him in.
- "Let him in"?
"I know the plans
I have for you".
"Let go and let God."
It's all the same
message. isn't it?
Be passive!
Stop trying to effect your own
life and trust in the thing
that disappears the second
you start looking for it.
You asked me. if there was
a God would I admit it?
Yes!
Of course.
You don't think I
want to be real?
You don't think I spent
every Sunday. every dinner.
Christmas. every god damn second
with my father
drinking the Kool-aid?
I was in the fold. man.
You talk like. I
know there's a God.
but I wish there wasn't.
No!
I wish God was real. but
where the fuck is he?
Your God and your religion
kept telling me the
same thing. be passive.
It's like this disease
that stuck to me
even when I left. and I'm done.
I'm done being passive.
I was passive with Cindy.
And I will not be
passive with Leo.
- Is there a god?
- Why are you torturing me?
I already broke myself
when I left Christianity.
And it hurt.
And now you want
to break me again?
Why. what for?
- Is there a god?
- I don't know.
Do you
believe there's a god?
- Yes.
- You're tired of being passive?
Pursue God.
Get up.
Start walking. run to him.
I'm not trying to torture you.
I'm trying to help you.
- I don't need your help.
- 'Cause you're just
doing so great right now?
- No. because all
you've got are words.
And all he's got...
He's not even here!
You think he'll help me?
I've heard that before.
I'm still waiting
for him to show up.
- What would you ask of him?
To come in the flesh?
To sacrifice himself.
to be crucified.
just so he could be with you?
- No. I want him here. now.
- Okay. so if God was here
right now. you would stop?
- Yes.
- Great!
Pete.
He is.
Here.
Now.
In this very room.
- No. Not invisible god.
Real God.
You talk about a relationship.
God becoming flesh.
Why not now?
Why not here?
Why am I not enough?
- No Pete. that's not-
- I mean part a sea.
burn a bush. be here.
Give me a sign.
- You've been talking to the
Bible for the last 30 minutes.
How much more of a
sign do you want?
- We have talked
before. many times.
- Then you should know!
You've got to let go.
Trust him.
- Trust him.
Do you have any idea
what that means?
- Of course. I do.
It means to have faith.
Hebrews 11:1.
Now faith is being sure-
- No Gideon.
do you know what that means?
- I just said-
- No. Gideon.
Do you know what it
means to trust God
when your own father
doesn't remember your name?
Or what it means to trust God
when you argue with your mom
about whether to
plan the funeral
because she thinks Dad
will raise from the dead?
Or what is means to trust God
when the woman you love
leaves you for another man?
Do you have any idea?
- Look. I know you've had pain-
- No. no you do not know.
and that is what I am saying.
Tell me when you felt pain.
Talk to me as someone
who had to trust God
when it was impossible.
How did you do it?
Who are you to talk to
me about trusting God?
- I'm. I'm his Word.
- His Word?
Well. do me a favor: go
get God and bring him.
He lost a son. right?
I'll talk to him.
But you. you've got
no skin in the game.
You're a tool.
A hammer left by God.
- Look. I'm his Word-
- And you are not enough.
- I'm trying-
- And you are not enough!
What?
- You don't.
You can't...
- What? I can't
grasp the context-
- You can't see
how lucky you are.
You are correct.
I am words.
And for all my words
I'm at best a tool.
at worst a weapon.
Or a cigarette.
Don't get me wrong.
I got a sweet gig.
God works through me.
It's great.
But you...
you can choose.
Grow.
Change!
Connect to the God
who made the universe.
You've got this chance.
this opportunity
to trust him in the mystery.
to have faith when
life gets blurry.
It's beautiful!
I know it sucks.
Or...
You're right. I don't.
I guess it sounds like it sucks.
But it's beautiful too.
- Can you save me. Gid?
- For God so loved the world
that he gave his
only begotten son-
- I've already read it.
- You've gotta. you
gotta believe it.
come into a saving acceptance
of the truth of it.
an intimate knowing of God.
- God.
You can't save me.
- No.
Pete-
You don't have to
answer that phone.
You can walk away. you
can walk away right now.
- Hello?
Yes. yes. it is.
Great.
Thank you.
- You don't have to do this.
We. we can hang out.
Catch a Cubs game.
Pete.
Peter!
Please.
- Thank you for everything Gid.
This was fun.
And. I know you wanted to help.
And...
I hope that no one rolls a
cigarette out of you again.
- Peter!
Peter!
Uh. uh.
Uh. okay. okay.
Um God.
Look.
Peter. I mean.
Peter. you know Peter
he's the one with the-
Oh
Come on Gid.
Peter.
He uh.
I mean.
He's about to do
something pretty bad.
And I know you let
people. but um.
Be with him.
Please.
He needs you.
- Pete?
Peter?
You okay?
- Please. be with him.
Just be with them both.
He needs you.
- Pete.
Thank you
so much for the help.
I'm sorry. that's quite heavy.
Yeah. yeah.
I've got it from here.
Thanks.